

How to become a good programmer
-------------------------------
https://dzone.com/articles/10-effective-ways-become-good



If you are someone who is aspiring to develop a career in Programming and need some guidance on building the relevant skills, then this article will help you a lot
1.Take help of online platforms
Codereview, github,codeavengers,codeschool,learnstreet,udacity, stackoverflow
1.Practice
You have to devote a major time of your hours on practicing and writing codes. "Practice makes man perfect" and it completely true for a programmer 
1.Knowledge of using debugging tools A programmer should know how to debug any program which contains errors or malfunctions
2.Problem solving
The work of a Programmer is more a problem solver using exceptional programming skills
3.Required patience
=>Patience will be required by you in terms of listening to the various business problems on various projects =>Your business team may not be very technical to elaborate you everything, you need patience to listen to them and understand the major issues and challenges =>Sometimes you need to present your solutions to them which is again a difficult task of making them understand of various technical things you have done in your work.
4.Learning and creating new everyday/think to build something new
Any problem can be approached through many ways and there can be many solutions for a single problem, As a programmer your task is to find best one After learning programming you have to have a vision of building something new Programming is a practical and you can build a lot new applications and software from it. Carve out new ideas to build something new from your learning
5.Understand concepts and do nor cram
A good programmer understand the concepts in depth and do not just cram. It is true that there are some fundementals which you need to memorize but not the complete codes
6.Never stop after Failures!
Never ever stop after your failures. No programming in the world did programming correctly on his first attempt. Successful programmers learn from their every mistake
9.Start developing Passion
People who are successful programmers love programming and they have a passion for it This passion won't only make you a good programmer but also make all your difficulties appears zero.
2.Work on basics
As it is true for any industry and any job, the conceptual understanding is the key for success. Unless one has strong conceptual foundation, you can never be a good programmer. The core conceptual understaning helps you in desiging and implementing the best solutions in the best possible way.
3.Start putting question tags(how,what) with every set of code you write
3.write simple, understandable but logical code
As in almost every aspect of life, the formulae of Keep It Simple and Short(KISS) works in programming as well. Write more logical code and avoid complexity. sometimes people do write complex code just to prove their capability to write such codes.
4.spend more time in analyzing the problem, you'll need less time to fix it
Spend more time in understanding and analyzing the problem and designing solutions for it. You will find the rest of the things quite easily doable. Designing not always mean using modeling languages and tools, it can be as simple as looking at sky and thinking solution in your mind.
5.Read documentation
one of the essential habits of good programmer is that they read lots of documentation. May it be specifications, API documents, tutorials etc. Reading documents helps you creating that essential foundation based on which you program in best of the way
6.You can learn from others code/project as well
Reading and referring reliable and known open source code or your senior's code, can help you making your programming better
7.You learn more by helping others
Most of us having a common tendency of turning our heads towards forums or groups only when we need help. And again a clear separation between the good programmer and rest that the formers visit these places more often to help others. This makes them learn more than they learn getting thier problem solved by someone else. Within a team as well, help others to solve their problems. Believe me, understanding other's problem in their context, investigating on that and providing solutions; will have much more learned than before
10.Share your Ideas and Knowledge
To become good programmer/developer, once you have learned something , try to share your knowledge with others with writing blogs or teaching to someone or helping others
"if you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough
11.Write Clean, Reuable, and Efficient Code Always try to write clean and efficient code with comments and proper documentation
